View Abstract
=============

The purpose of Ingrid is to create a python-based grid generator for the edge region of a tokamak. This region, between the core plasma and the walls, is a challenge to model and the grid will divide this region into topologically significant segments. We implemented bicubic interpolation to get access to information between the rectangular grid points from the equilibrium fit (EFIT) data. This required the use of finite differences for the calculation of three partial derivatives at each grid point. Some cases required new equations which we derived from the Taylor Series approximations. We used functions from the SciPy package to find the roots of the EFIT data, which physically are interesting parts of the plasma regions, namely the magnetic axis in the core plasma, and the x-points, which occur in the edge regions. Mathematically, the x-points are saddle points and the magnetic axis is a maximum. Once these points are acquired, the data is normalized and we use LSODA (Livermore Solver for Ordinary Differential Equations) to integrate along the poloidal and radial lines, thus tracing out a skeleton of the grid. This skeleton is then divided into patches based of the topology, each with several cells defined by points. The object-oriented nature of this grid works very well with Python, in which everything is an object. This structure allows for quick generalization, and it is anticipated to generate the grid quickly once these objects have been created. Once the grid can be produced and exported into a file, it will be very useful in a large number of codes. Ingrid will be generalized, with the interactive nature of the code allowing the user to guide its progress. As a result, a large number of configurations will be supported.
